In this section of the course we learned about pseudo classes and see SS pseudo classes allow us to
specify styles that will be applied to our elements in special States.
First we looked at pseudo classes that work with user input.
These are checked disabled enabled focus in range invalid optional out-of-range read only read write
required and valid the check to whole class selects every checked input element disabled selects every
input element on the web page that is disabled on the other hand enabled selects every input element
that is enabled.
Focus allows us to select whatever input element has focus in range select each element that has a value
within the specified range.
The invalid pseudo class intellectual input elements that have an invalid value.
The optional pseudo class selects all input elements that don't have the required attribute.
The required pseudo class selects all input elements with the required attribute specified out-of-range
selects all input elements with values outside of a specified range.
Read only select all input elements that have a read only attribute read write on the other hand select
all input elements that don't have the read only attribute specified.
The valid pseudo class selects all input elements that have a valid value.
Then we learned about some of the general pseudo classes that apply to elements.
These are empty.
First child first of type langue last child last of type not and the child and the last child and last
of type only of type and only child.
The empty pseudo class selects every element of the specified type that doesn't have any children.
First child selects every element that is the first child of its parent.
The first of type pseudo class selects every element that is the first child of another element of the
same type.
The langue pseudo class selects every paragraph's element with a lang attribute of the specified language.
Last child selects every element that is the last child of its parent.
The last of type pseudo class selects every element that is the last child of another element of the
same type.
The only of type pseudo class selects every element that is the only element of that type in its parent
is the only child pseudo class selects every element that is the only child of its parent.
After that we learned about pseudo classes that apply to link elements.
These are link visited hover and active to link pseudo class allows us to add style to all unvisited
links on our Web page.
The visited pseudo class allows us to add style to visited links on our Web page the Hulver pseudo class
allows us to add style that will apply to a link element when we hover over it.
The active pseudo class allows us to add style that will apply to a link element as it is clicked or
selected.
Finally we learned about pseudo elements in CSSA the five pseudo elements in CSSA are after both for
first letter first line and selection.
The after pseudo element allows us to insert content after every element of the type specified before
the selector.
The before pseudo element allows us to insert content before every element of the specified type before
the selector first letter is a pseudo element that selects the first letter of every text element of
the specified type before the selector.
Similarly the first line pseudo element selects the first line of every text element of the specified
type.
The selections to all elements selects the portion of an element that is selected by the user in the
next section.
We will learn about CSSA at rules and the role that they play in our style sheets.